hello folks my name is Shawn but people
on the internet call me spam whack this
is a fancied up version of the AFK wheat
farm i built on the harmach craft server
i hate long intro so let's just get into
it this machine is designed to harvest
and replant all of your week for you
while you're AFK all you need to do is
hold down the right mouse button and
walk away from the computer every hour a
waterspout will harvest all the wheat
and you will automatically replant the
crops in order to make sure you never
run out of seeds a dispenser is in place
that will automatically refill your
inventory here's how it works a row of
Pistons hold back a line of water
streams and is set to retrack every hour
the hour-long timer we use to control
Pistons is a double hopper clock this
hopper clock by itself sends a very
short pulse so we use a pulse extender
to make sure the Pistons remain open for
about six seconds this gives the water
streams time to fully push all the crops
into the channel below when the crops go
into the stream they are deposited into
a simple hopper depository at the end
simultaneously a dropper filled with
seeds is set to drop a seat near the
track every four point two minutes in
order to keep the players stack full
this hopper clock is simply what keeps
the dropper dropping seeds every four
minutes and the lever down below powers
everything flip the lever and all of
your processes stop now let's start from
the ground up or in this case the sky so
we can get a feel for how this thing
works this is a line of dirt which will
be our farmland but it needs to be
hydrated we want our water to be far
enough away that it will flow for a
decent amount of time but close enough
to hydrate the crops so let's place the
water one block up and four blocks away
in this case I'm using ice as a
placeholder
next let's place the ground leading over
to the farmland and after that place our
Pistons where they can hold back the
water power the Pistons by creating a
redstone line on a row of blocks above
the water this lever we use is temporary
to hold the Pistons shut this is the
method I use for extending the line past
15 blocks without missing any Pistons
now we're going to build our pulse
extender I won't build it block by block
because that would be long and boring
especially when you can see every block
necessary to build it from this angle
except for the redstone torch that
protrudes from this block which I've
highlighted in green I won't go into
this thing in detail because the
mechanics of it would warrant a video of
its own a video thats assume avoid has
already done if you're interested in
checking that out but just copy this
block for block input 10 throwaway items
in the hopper farthest from the water
this component is what keeps the water
flowing long enough to capture all of
our crops at this point let's build our
simple rail system that pushes us back
and forth leave one block of air between
the rails and the farm every powered
rail can be powered all the time except
for the one closest to the pulse
extender later this lever will be a
master control switch for the entire
machine but for now it will just power
this one rail your placement and ratio
of powered rails will change based on
how many farm lands you want but I like
to make sure the cart slows down as much
as possible so I can plant all my seeds
the next step is building the hopper
timer this is where things might get a
little math ii and complicated but it's
easy I swear first build this set up
these are two out of the three hopper
clocks were going to use for the machine
in total these were originally designed
by ethoslab but of course they were
adapted by the community as a whole and
I found them incredibly useful that's
the first one done now the second one
laying down the connecting bits and then
the six by two base and then the rest is
all fairly easy to follow we'll call
these clock one and clock to clock one
being the one that takes down on its own
and clock to being the one that's
connected to clock ones output clock one
tix about every four minutes and clock
to takes every time clock one tix that
means as long as clock one is full the
number of items we choose to put in
clock to determines how many four minute
increments we want our clock to last we
want this thing to last 60 minutes so
we'll put 15 items in clock to so to
reiterate we want 320 items o'clock 1
and 15 items in clock to which will make
this timer set up last about an hour a
little longer but we're keeping our math
simple at the end of the hour the timer
will fire off one very short tick which
is why we have it set up to the polls
extender this thing will turn the
timer's quarter second pulse into a six
second pulse which is long enough to let
the water flow before we move on let's
make sure to connect our hopper clocks
to the primary switch for the entire
machine by providing it with power to
the back to hoppers this will suspend
any items moving back and forth and
essentially pause the machine
next we want to build a water channel
it's pretty well literally straight
forward just a straight channel and it
has a standard line of hopper / chest
depositors at the end finally we want to
make sure our inventory is always
getting its seeds replenished so we need
to build a dropper connected to another
timer start with a dropper a few blocks
above the track and set it up to drop
its items next to the track I've got a
chest in a hopper set up above it so
that it always has enough seeds to do
the job we need to connect the timer to
this thing but we also want the timer to
be controlled by the master switch so
let's start down there build up from the
switch making sure the last torch is
inverted at the end of this power line
we want another timer made out of
hoppers except and this one we only want
one stack that will give us about 60
items in an hour for the finishing
touches make sure you've got sufficient
lighting for the crops and some walls
around your water channel otherwise
crops tend to land on the edges like
they did here but it doesn't have to be
class there are a few things you could
do to make this machine really fancy for
example instead of dropping seeds from a
separate inventory you can filter out
the seeds that it produces and give them
back to the player automatically like I
did on the server but this would require
building two additional filters and line
of hopper transports which could get
expensive if the machine is too big you
could also avoid building the last timer
by attaching a bud switch to clock one
but I prefer not to over complicate my
designs for the sake of looking smart
this version is easy to build it does
its job and it doesn't require you to be
especially good with redstone a download
for this world is in this video's
description please remember if this
video helped you leave a like and
subscribe if you would like to see more
of these or if you want to check out my
shenanigans on hermitcraft really wish
we could just like suddenly make this
aim right that was a beautiful but shots
that last one didn't fire some crap
well that interesting perfect oh god we
accidentally did that great that aim was
perfect why didn't that fire that's just
it didn't make her but always through
all my repeaters on the bed warm tea oh
crap